What is the name of this organization?
The official name of this organization is Cornell Data Science.
What is the acronym CDS?
CDS stands for Cornell Data Science.
What is the purpose of CDS?
The purpose of Cornell Data Science shall be to facilitate the best possible environment for the exploration of careers in cutting-edge machine learning and software engineering. Moreover, we firmly believe that success entails a social responsibility to contribute to Cornell and the greater community through education, outreach, and developing projects that deliver value beyond our own enrichment.
What are the goals of this organization?
1. Develop and maintain a robust knowledge base and training curriculum toaccommodate the evolving needs of our membership. \n 2. Provide hands-on experience with industry-level development processes through the execution of data-driven projects. \n 3. Engage with the general academic and industrial data-science community through research conferences, corporate events, and other initiatives that enhance our understanding of data science beyond the college environment. \n 4. Teach the Cornell University community about a wide range of data science and machine learning techniques through an introductory level course for students as well as other initiatives and events. \n 5. Insist on the highest standards, continually raising the bar to learn more, develop higher quality projects, and give more back to the community. \n 6. Foster a collaborative environment that values and actively seeks to support diversity, equity, and inclusion, both within our membership and the greater Cornell community through a fair and equitable recruitment process, collaborations with other organizations on campus, and internal initiatives.
Who is eligible for membership in CDS?
1. The organization shall consist of undergraduate students (and graduate students, in exceptional circumstances) of Cornell University who are interested in the purpose of the CDS and who shall be approved by the current membership. \n 2. Admission to the organization is rigorous and competitive, requiring the completion of both an application form, which asks for a candidate’s technical background and reason for interest, and an interview, which allows the members of CDS to assess a candidate’s critical technical and communicative skills. \n 3. All members are admitted to one of our four subteams: Data Engineering (DE), Data Science (DS), Machine Learning Engineering (MLE), and Quantitative Finance (QF). Members are expected to participate in one of these subteams throughout the entirety of their tenure on CDS. \n 4. CDS complies with anti-discrimination policy 6.4 of Cornell University, titled Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct, which can be found in the Student Handbook.
What are general membership expectations?
1. Members are expected to attend all full-team meetings, held roughly once a month. \n 2. Members are expected to assist with the planning, advertising, and implementation of events hosted by the organization. \n 3. Members are expected to attend all subteam meetings, held weekly. \n 4. Members are expected to actively participate in recruiting new members, including holding information sessions, reviewing applications, conducting interviews, and engaging in deliberations. \n 4. Members are expected to participate in and contribute to our projects (including ideation, design, development, and presentation). \n 5. Members are expected to attend the end-of-semester showcase in which we present our projects to the greater Cornell community. \n 6. Members are invited to all social events hosted by the organization.
What does new member recruitment look like?
1. Recruitment for CDS occurs at the beginning of each semester. Recruitment for all four subteams happens in parallel, and each subteam runs a slightly different recruitment process. \n 2. The organization recruits through the Engineering Student Project Teams recruitment process. In addition, we host information sessions and networking events, distribute quarter cards, and participate in cross-project-team recruitment events with other organizations. \n 3. The recruitment process consists of a written application, the results of which determine eligibility for an interview. Upperclassmen will also be evaluated on their resume. The interview, if granted, involves both a behavioral and a technical component. While the behavioral component focuses on assessing character, the technical component focuses on both active problem-solving and preparation of detailed technical solutions prior to the interview. \n 4. Membership is granted based on the results of application materials and interviews. Deliberations are held for each prospective member to ensure fairness and equity in the process. \n 5. After being admitted, new members go through a semester-long onboarding process where they learn the fundamental skills they need to succeed in CDS. \n 6.  CDS is committed to maintaining a fair and equitable recruitment process that emphasizes diversity, equity, and inclusion in addition to technical skills. Most importantly, we strive to build a team that is passionate about our mission and would thrive throughout their tenure in our organization.
Is it possible to be removed from CDS as a member?
The Officers reserve the right to remove any member (if at least three-fourths of the Officers are in favor)
What are grounds for removal from CDS?
1. Violation of rules and regulations set forth in the Cornell Student Handbook and/or Campus Code of Conduct. \n 2. Failure to uphold the provisions of the constitution and bylaws. \n 3. Failure to act in the best interests of the organization and/or engagement in activity jeopardizing the well-being of the organization. \n 4. Unexcused absences for a minimum of 4 required events. \n 5.  Probationary period exceeding one-semester with reviews showing little to no improvement.
What is the procedure for removing a member from the organization?
1. The member has been in a “warning”/probationary status for at least one semester. \n 2. An officer proposes removal of the member to the E-Board. \n 3. The E-Board prepares a review of the member’s performance throughout their tenure in the organization and their attempts to improve (or lack thereof) during the probationary period. \n 4. After an in-depth review of the materials, the E-Board will vote to remove the member. At least three-fourths of the E-Board must be in favor of removing the member for the motion to pass. \n 5. If a member is removed from the organization, they will meet with the President and Vice President directly to receive the news and discuss the consequences. \n 6. Removed members are unable to rejoin the organization. Their access to all CDS resources are revoked (including internal knowledge base, projects, etc.) and they are unable to partake in any more current or future CDS activities (this includes projects, socials, etc.). Removing a member is taken very seriously, and should only happen after multiple attempts have been made to correct the offending behavior.
How many members and subteam leads are there?
Each subteam consists of between 16 and 20 members (4-5 per academic graduating class) and two distinct subteam leads.
How are members recruited to subteams?
Members are recruited directly to one of the four subteams and participatein the subteam throughout the entirety of their tenure on CDS. Members may switch subteams under exceptional circumstances, but requests must be approved by their respective subteam leads and the President of CDS.
Can a member work on any project in CDS?
Projects are not gated by subteam. In other words, any member may work on any project run by CDS regardless of their subteam.
What is the purpose of subteams?
Subteams dedicate a significant portion of their time to learning more about their related fields and holding workshops and presentations for themselves, the members of CDS, or the greater Cornell community.
How are officers elected on CDS?
The elected officers in CDS shall be the President and Vice President. Elections are kept internal to the executive board. All other positions are appointed by the newly elected President and Vice President in conjunction with the currently sitting chairs. \n The previous President and Vice President may provide their input on executive board selection, but the decisions ultimately fall on the newly elected officers.
What is the role of the President on CDS?
a. Coordinate all functions and activities of CDS. \n b. Chair all General Membership and Executive Board meetings. \n c. Ensure that all of CDS’s activities and members are in accordance with all policies of Cornell University. \n d. Secure CDS’s registration with Cornell University each year. \n e. Maintain open communication with each officer and faculty/staff advisor. \n f. Install and remove all appointed officers with the approval of the Executive Board. \n g. Serve as an ex-officio member of each committee. \n h. Act as a spokesperson for the organization. \n i. Organize and run an officer transition and education program for new officers. \n j. Maintain contact with and solicit participation from organization advisors. \n k. Establish and maintain relationships with alumni of the organization. \n l. Seek out new advisors, if needed, and acquaint them with the organization’s history, traditions, and procedures.
What is the role of the Vice President on CDS?
a. Serve as Executive Vice President of CDS. \n b. Ensure that all the organization’s activities and members are in accordance with all policies of Cornell University. \n c. Maintain accurate records of CDS’s Membership. \n d. Maintain records of participation in events for each Member. \n e. Oversee the review of each Member’s requirements. \n f. Endeavor to improve CDS’s retention of its Members. \n g. If the President cannot perform their duties for a meeting, event, or other purpose, the Vice President will assume the role.
What is the role of the Education Chair on CDS?
a. Run INFO 1998, the CDS organized course that teaches basic principles of data science and machine learning to interested students in the Cornell community. This responsibility includes but is not limited to: \n i. Developing course material, lectures, and assignments \n ii. Selecting lecturers and coaching them on teaching skills \n iii. Gathering teaching assistants and planning office hours \n iv. Managing student enrollment \n b. Assist with the development of new CDS courses as the interest and need arises, including those related to software engineering, data engineering, machine learning engineering, or other topics relevant to those in the Cornell community interested in data science. \n c. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Education Chairs.
What is the role of the Business Chair on CDS?
a. Manage the finances and budget of CDS. The Business Chair will work with the President and Vice President to determine a feasible budget for events, projects, and initiatives. \n b. Provide the President and Vice President with a monthly report regarding the state of the organization’s finances. \n c. Serve as the liaison for corporate outreach. Manage corporate sponsorship applications and coordinate with the Social Chair for corporate events. \n d. Ensure that CDS has enough income to support expenditures. This involves efforts such as preparing and submitting applications for funding to the SAFC or any other necessary organization. \n e. Assist, in coordination with the Social Chair, the effort to design and produce CDS merchandise for the membership. \n f. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Business Chairs.
What is the role of the Onboarding Chair on CDS?
a. Train new members admitted to CDS across all subteams. This includes but is not limited to: \n i. Developing the new member education curriculum. \n ii. Selecting guest lecturers and coaching them on necessary skills. \n iii. Creating a committee to assist with the management of new member education. \n iv. Making and overseeing assignments that help reinforce the ideas taught in new member education. \n v. Running the annual (or bi-annual) Datathon, a data-science focused hackathon for new members that serves as the capstone onboarding experience. \n vi. Maintaining documentation that can be used as reference for all CDS members. \n b. Instill our new members with our mission, culture, and values. \n c. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Onboarding Chairs.
What is the role of the Social Chair on CDS?
a. Plan all full-team social events for the membership of CDS, including but not limited to: \n i. New Member Social (at the start of each semester) \n ii. Holiday Socials (at the end of the fall semester) \n iii. Cross-team socials with other organizations \n iv. End-of-year socials (for graduating seniors) \n b. Coordinate with the Business chair to create and distribute CDS merchandise to the team. \n c. Assist in the planning and execution of smaller social events, such as onboarding socials for new members, subteam-internal socials, and other events that do not require as much planning but may still need oversight and/or team resources. \n d. Maintain a reasonable budget with the Business Chair for team socials and events. \n e. Assist in the coordination and planning of corporate partnership events that may involve more engagement from the membership of CDS. \n f. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Social Chairs.
What is the role of the Technical Chair on CDS?
a. Maintain the CPU, GPU, and AWS resources for the organization. This includes but is not limited to: \n i. Granting access to new members and general maintenance \n ii. Ensuring that the CDS infrastructure runs smoothly \n iii. Developing a budget for compute resources in collaboration with the Business Chair
b. Develop and hold an annual training on how to access the organization’s technical resources. \n c. Assist project leads with AWS infrastructure setup for their projects. \n i. This includes being reasonably responsive to such requests from members. \n d. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Technical Chairs.
What is the role of the Website Chair on CDS?
a. Develop and maintain the CDS website (currently found at https://cornelldata.science).
This includes but is not limited to: \n i. Updating member list, project demos, information about our courses, and recruitment \n ii. Updating our member list, project demos, recruitment resources, and information on our course(s) \n b. Maintain the organization’s internal knowledge base (currently Confluence) by managing access, permissions, and content. \n c. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future Website Chairs.
What is the role of subteam leads on CDS?
a. Manage their respective subteam of CDS. \n i. This includes, if needed, creating additional membership guidelines and expectations for subteam members beyond that of the general CDS organization requirements. \n b. Oversee creation and execution of domain-specific workshops that educate their members on topics chosen by the subteam. \n c. Run, in conjunction with the President and Vice President, recruitment for the subteam. \n This includes but is not limited to: \n i. Serving as the face of the subteam during information sessions \n ii. Creating interview materials and teaching the rest of the subteam the necessary skills to conduct interviews \n iii. Running application reviews \n iv. Running interviews \n v. Holding deliberations \n vi. Sending out final decisions to applicants \n d. Monitor the progress of CDS members on their respective projects and ensure that members have the resources they need to be successful. \n e. Serve as the primary point of contact for CDS academic advisors. \n f. Assign final grades for all CDS members on their subteam (for those who are taking CDS for credit through the College of Engineering). \n g. Write a guide for the position that can be passed down to future subteam leads.
What is the terms of service for officers on CDS?
a. No individual shall hold a specific position as Officer for more than four semesters. \n b. Grounds for removal of an officer include: \n i. Violation of rules and regulations set forth in the Cornell Student Handbook \n ii. Failure to uphold the provisions of the constitution and bylaws \n c. The entire executive board may vote to remove a particular officer if the person in question: \n i. Consistently fails to perform his or her assigned duties with no signs of improvement \n ii. Assumes or attempts to assume control over the responsibilities of other executive board members \n iii. Knowingly furnishes false information to the executive board with the intent to deceive \n iv. Knowingly misrepresents or attempts to misrepresent the opinions of the executive board \n v. Fails to recognize and respect the majority-voted decisions of executive board members \n d. Unanimous votes are required to remove the officer.
How are elections done for officers on CDS?
a. At the end of each academic year, CDS will hold elections for the next academic year’s President and Vice President. \n b. Members of the executive board who wish to run for presidency may do so by announcing their candidacy to the current sitting President and Vice President. \n c. Candidates will have the chance to prepare their platform and at the following executive board meeting, they will give a speech pitching their candidacy to the current sitting executive board. After a period of deliberations and voting, the executive board will elect the president and vice president. \n d. All candidates run for president. The runner-up is declared vice president through the deliberations process. \n e. Elections are determined by majority vote of the executive board. The president’s vote will serve as a tiebreaker if necessary. \n f. Once the president and the vice president are elected, they will have the opportunity to appoint the rest of the executive board chairs through an application and interview process. \n g. Subteam leads are decided by a combination of the president and the former subteam leads. \n h. In the case where terms are up after the fall semester (as opposed to the entire academic year), the president and vice president will work to fill any vacant positions through applications and interviews. \n i. The president and vice president must commit to serving for one entire academic year.
What are the responsibilities of officers on CDS?
a. Each officer, both elected and appointed, shall be responsible for their duties as listed in this constitution. \n b. Each officer shall also be responsible for establishing and maintaining a working relationship with the General Membership, Executive Board, and all other officers, advisors, chairs, committees, and staff necessary to perform their duties.
How are officers transitioned from year to year (semester) on CDS?
a. Each officer shall maintain a record of their position, including budgets and activities of the office, to provide to incoming officers following elections. \n b. Outgoing officers shall also make every effort to assist in the transition process, including helping to ensure that incoming officers are aware of their responsibilities. \n c. Each officer is responsible for updating the documentation for their respective position.
How are vacancies of officers filled on CDS?
a. Any officer may resign by submitting a letter to the Executive Board. \n b. The president and vice president will fill the vacancy through a brief application and interview period. \n c. A vacancy of the office of president will be filled by the vice president. \n d. Any person selected to fill a vacancy shall meet the eligibility requirements prescribed for that position. \n e. Current officers shall be eligible to run for the vacant position but would be required to vacate their original position immediately upon election. \n f. If a new vacancy is created by the special process, another will be held to fill that vacancy and so on until all positions are filled.
How are advisors for each subteam selected?
a. Each subteam maintains an academic advisor. There is no overall advisor for the organization. \n b. Advisor may be any faculty or staff member at Cornell University capable of corresponding with the University on the official and legal matters of CDS. \n c. Advisor is selected by majority vote of active membership of the subteam.
What are the responsibilities of advisors on CDS?
a. Attend general body and/or executive board meetings if needed. \n b. Meet regularly with subteam leads to stay updated and serve as a resource. \n c. Assist with the annual registration process if needed. \n d. Assist with the funding process if needed. \n e. Assign grades for all members of the organization receiving academic credit for their contributions.
What are the terms of service for advisors on CDS?
a. There is no limit to how long the Advisor may hold the position, subject the Advisor acts in the organization’s best interests, does not violate any rules and regulations set forth in the Cornell Student Handbook and/or Campus Code of Conduct, and is not engaged in activity jeopardizing the existence of the organization. \n b. If subteams change or the organization changes, CDS may revisit currently standing appointments for advisors.
What is the Code of Conduct for members on CDS?
Section 1. All members are required to follow local, state, and federal laws, Cornell University rules, and the organization’s constitution at all functions. \n Section 2. All members will abide by the Cornell Student Handbook, specifically Policy 6.4: Prohibited Bias, Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual and Related Misconduct. \n Section 3. In case of a violation and/or an active University investigation, the following are options (Note: Many University investigations are confidential, and there is no obligation for the University office to share information about a case): \n a. Members involved in an active University investigation may receive a temporary suspension or limited membership as determined by a unanimous decision of the Officers and Advisor. \n b. Members found in violation of university policy may be permanently removed as members, as determined by a unanimous decision of the officers and advisor.
What is the amendment and ratification process on CDS?
Section 1. This constitution shall become effective upon approval by all members of the executive board. \n Section 2. Amendment process. \n a. Any member of the organization may propose an amendment. \n b. Proposals must be made formally to the President. If at least ten members of the team claim that the amendment should be approved by the whole organization, then the amendment will be made available to the whole team at the next full team meeting. \n c. Voting will occur during the full team meeting. Only active members may vote. \n d. An amendment passes if it garners a two-thirds majority or higher. \n Section 3. Ratification process. \n a. This constitution need only be ratified once unless a vote by two-thirds of the executive board deems it necessary for a complete rewrite. \n b. After an amendment is submitted and passed by the general meeting, a two-thirds majority vote is required to accept and ratify the change.