What are the contents of grading?
1. Taking CDS for credit \n 2. General member grading \n 3. Role-specific grading \n 4. FAQs
How can  I take CDS for credit?
As an official college of engineering project team, we are fortunate to be able to take CDS for graded credits. This is more beneficial for engineering students than arts students, since it can be used to fill major/advisor-approved electives for graduation requirements. For arts students, it can still be a nice GPA booster (provided you actually do the work…) \n The course we take for credit is ENGRG 3400. You may sign up for the course for 1-3 total credits each semester. The maximum amount of credits you can get for being on a project team throughout your time at Cornell is 12 credits. 
Can I take CDS for credit as a new project team member?
Additionally, if you are a new project team member, you must take ENGRG 1400 during your first semester on the team (or your second semester, if you are recruited as a freshman in the fall). ENGRG 1400 is a 1-credit, S/U only course that teaches you about project team guidelines.
How many credits do you recommend taking for CDS?
We strongly recommend that all active members of CDS take ENGRG 3400 for 3 credits every semester. If there is any reason you are not able to take 3-credits of ENGRG 3400, you should consult your subteam lead. Some (bad) excuses are “I’m over-enrolled” and “I missed the add deadline”. The add deadline for ENGRG 3400 is much later than it is for other courses, and you will be given many reminders. As for being over-enrolled, engineers can petition to go above 20 credits for ENGRG 3400, and arts students should probably not be on a project team anyways if you’re already above 20 credits… \n Nonetheless, the amount of work you’re expected to do on your project is proportional to the number of credits you’re taking CDS for. The point values of your tickets, the scope of your involvement, etc. will be based on how many credits you are taking. This is because there needs to be an actual distinction between someone taking CDS for one credit versus three. 
How do I sign up credits for CDS?
When you sign up for ENGRG 3400, make sure you’re signing up for the right advisor, since we have many on CDS. \n Data Engineering: Trummer \n Data Science: Weinberger \n Machine Learning Engineering: De Sa \n Quantitative Finance: Hirsch \n The professor listed above will ultimately assign your grade for CDS (based on the scores your subteam leads send them). 
How is general member grading done on CDS?
As a member of CDS, you have three main buckets of obligations each semester: \n Full-team obligations (recruitment, events and initiatives, etc) \n Subteam obligations (organizing workshops, events, etc) \n Project obligations (the actual work) 
What is the grade breakdown on CDS?
Your grade will reflect all of these different tasks you are expected to complete. Here’s the breakdown: Full-team: 20%, Subteam: 20%, Project: 60%
How do I contribute to my grade towards CDS?
Regardless of how many credits you are taking for CDS, everyone is expected to contribute the same amount of work to the full team and subteam categories. The credit flexibility is for the project - if you take less credits, you’ll need to do less work for the project. 
How is full-team grading calculated?
There are not that many full-team obligations throughout the semester, but you will be assessed on your contributions to the ones that are mandatory. Here are the graded items for the full-team category: \n Full-team meeting attendance \n Attend at least one recruitment info session \n Attend end-of-semester Showcase \n Contribute to Datathon for new members \n Attend any corporate partnership events we have throughout the semester \n Note that full-team grading is really just attendance - it’s free as long as you show up. If you have unavoidable conflicts with the above list, reach out to the president or vice president and we can work something out. We’ll have opportunities to gain back missed points if you happen to miss something above. 
How is subteam grading calculated?
This will vary a bit more per subteam, but generally here are the absolute must-haves: \n Subteam meeting attendance (allowed 1-2 absences, depending on your team) \n Complete mid-semester deliverable and subteam lead check-in \n Complete end-of-semester deliverable \n Conduct at least one workshop for your subteam learning initiatives (this will be graded on quality, not just completion) \n Attend end-of-semester presentation with your advisor 
How is project grading calculated?
This is obviously a big portion of your grade, so it’s important to understand how you’ll be evaluated. In short, a combination of your tech lead, PM, and subteam lead will help assign your grade for the project category. The tech lead is the primary grader, with the other people helping to verify as needed. \n If you do the following you’ll be fine: \n Attend all project meetings/work sessions (allowed 1-2 absences, depending on the project). Check with your PM \n Attend all demos (associated with the important milestones) \n Contribute to the design document \n Contribute to the final presentation/report (and be in attendance at showcase and any/all stakeholder presentations at the end of the semester) \n Contribute to project development (clear record of tickets you’ve completed) \n The above list are the high-level requirements. The actual scoring of these things are kept discretionary to your project leads; however, if you get everything above done you should not lose any points in this category. 
What other things are relevant for CDS grading?
Note that we aren’t trying to be antagonistic when assigning grades - we genuinely just want you to be rewarded for your hard work. At the same time, the college of engineering is cracking down on project team grading, and we need objective metrics to be able to score you on your work. Most of your grade is really just completion and attendance. Show up, be involved, be enthusiastic, and you’ll be fine! We are trying to give everyone an A (or higher, iykyk). 
How is role-specific grading done on CDS?
We would not exist as an organization if it weren’t for the hard work of our subteam leads, E-Board members, and project leads. As such, we have a slightly modified grading scheme for people in those positions to make managing your time spent on CDS easier. Note, this grading scheme applies to the following groups of members: \n E-Board Roles (President, Vice President, Chairs) \n Subteam Leads \n Technical Lead or Project Manager for projects
What is the grading scheme for role-specific members on CDS?
Full-team: 20%, Subteam: 20%, Role-specific work: 20%, Project: 40% \n All of the grading criterion above still applies for the buckets, the weights are just slightly adjusted for projects. You can think about it this way: if you are in a CDS leadership position, one credit of your CDS grade will be taken off of the project and moved towards the role. In essence, we consider leadership positions to be about one credit worth of work, which means you can spend less time on your project in proportion. \nIf for some reason, you have two E-Board positions simultaneously (should happen rarely or never but it does happen), consider each E-Board role to be one credit worth of work. So if you’re taking CDS for 3 credits, you would only spend about 1 credit worth of work on the actual project and 2 credits on the role-specific work. \n This is important because it helps the Project Managers and Tech Leads scope work appropriately. Tickets with more points get assigned to people who have more credits allocated to the project. The exact scheme for role-specific grading is kept internal to E-Board - you can find the rubrics and scoring details in the E-Board space on Confluence. 
Do I have to take CDS for credit?
I don’t see why you wouldn’t. If you’re planning on working on a project it’s basically a free A. It also helps us track your work, so yes, if you are going to contribute to CDS you should be taking it for credit unless you have extenuating circumstances. There are rare exceptions but we’ll handle that on a case-by-case basis. 
Do I need to take CDS for 3 credits?
We’re a bit more flexible on this. Generally we want everyone to take it for 3 credits but if there’s some legitimate reason why you can’t you can take it for less. Clear this with your subteam lead and/or president/vice president first. 
Do I need to do a project each semester?
Again, if you’re taking CDS for credit and want to be involved I’m not sure how you would participate without being part of a project. Here’s one exception we’ll allow: if you are on E-Board/serving as a lead but don’t want to do a project, you can still take CDS for one credit and we’ll simply neglect the project portion of the grade in favor of other categories. In almost all other circumstances though, you should be part of a project to be considered an active member of our team. 
How do I petition to go above 20 credits in the college of engineering?
Registrar Forms | Cornell Engineering 
Grading seems strict - I am scared.
We don’t want you to be worried about your grade on CDS - it is truly almost 100% completion. We just want to track your involvement. You will not be penalized if you are struggling to complete a really hard ticket or something like that. You will be penalized, though, if you don’t show up to meetings and that ticket never gets done. Just be transparent and show up to things and you will be okay.
Why standardize it like this? My subteam usually has a different scheme.
Because it’s easier to track. It’s a bit unfair if someone on CDS gets a higher grade just because of their subteam - we all have the same standards and now that projects are cross-subteam, it makes sense to have grades standardized for that work. 
I’m worried I won’t have time for CDS this semester. 
Try to diagnose this earlier rather than later - if you don’t have time one semester because you’re particularly swamped, it’s okay. Many people take a semester off. If you commit to being here though, you need to be here. We can’t keep putting all of the work on the shoulders of a few outstanding individuals - if you take CDS for credit you’re expected to contribute. \n If you can’t take it for credit one semester, it’s fine. We’re happy to see you around and hope you’re still involved in some way. If this becomes a multi-semester thing, we’ll need to talk. Again, communicate clearly with your subteam leads and it will be okay. 