What is recruitment for CDS?
Recruitment is a fundamental component of our project team. It goes without saying that recruitment drastically impacts the future of CDS for years to come. To that end, it’s critical that we recruit with utmost care for integrity and potential. It’s hard to get onto CDS - many people applied more than once before getting on. We need to respect the effort and dedication that people show towards our team by putting in our full effort. 
Give me an overview of the recruitment process on CDS. 
Info sessions and coffee chats: First few weeks of the semester. Written application due: 3-4 days to review before interviews. Interviews: 1-2 weeks of interviews. 1 hour per candidates. Deliberations: After all interviews completed. Final offers
What does our recruitment structure look like for CDS?
It’s important to note that in the fall, there are two waves of recruitment - one for upperclassmen and one for freshmen/transfers. In the spring, however, there’s only one wave of recruitment for both freshmen and upperclassmen. This means that choosing to recruit freshmen in the fall drastically slows down our timeline - we have to put a lot of effort into recruiting instead of into our projects because we’re forced to continuously recruit for two months. 
What are the expectations for current CDS members in regard to recruitment?
Showing up to at least one of the two information sessions. Reviewing written applications. Participating in interviews and deliberations. All of these will be part of your grade. Again, we cannot stress enough that recruitment is really important to our team, and we need all of our members to be actively engaged in the process each semester. People took the time and energy to read your application, interview you, and ultimately select you for our project team. Show that same effort and energy to the people who are applying now.
What is recusal for CDS recruitment?
This is a less fun topic, but it’s one that must be said. If you have any personal connection to an applicant on your subteam, you must recuse yourself from any and all deliberations related to their candidacy. This means you may not read their application, you may not interview them, and you may not participate in their deliberations. In fact, you should leave the room when their candidacy is being discussed until it’s absolutely necessary for you to know what’s going on (i.e. your team is down to 3 candidates and one of them is your friend). Why are we so stringent about this? First, it’s a College of Engineering policy. Other project teams on campus have gotten in serious trouble (including suspension) because they did not follow this policy. We’re going to state this upfront: if you are caught violating this policy, you will be asked to leave the project team. You have a responsibility to uphold integrity within our review process - project teams are intensely competitive and people care a lot about them. So whenever you have doubts, just ask. The standard for recusal is that if you have a working or personal relationship with them in which you interact with them at least once a week, you should recuse. That’s not to say that you need to step out for every single person you’ve interacted with. For example, you might TA a candidate in a course or know them from some other place. If you interacted once or twice it’s fine. If you consistently interact with them, you should recuse. Air on the side of caution, and clear any recusals with your lead. 
What is diversity, equity, inclusion on CDS?
It’s no secret that this is a problem for our project team. We will talk about this in-depth on a future page, but we want to be clear that DEI is important to CDS. It is something all of us need to take an active effort to fix. Often one major issue stems from the fact that our applicant pool is not very diverse - one of the reasons why we aren’t recruiting freshmen this fall is to try to help rectify this. We’ll also be coordinating events with other organizations on campus to try and get our name out more. Ultimately, it is critical to keep DEI in mind during recruitment as well. The way you present yourself during information sessions, how you choose to move candidates forward through the interview process, and what you say about them during deliberations all can show our inherent biases. Keep these in mind as you continue reading the handbook. 
Give me an overview of the information sessions.
The information session is a critically underrated part of CDS recruiting - it’s our chance to show off who we are to interested candidates and ultimately convince them to apply.
What is the structure of information sessions?
Total duration: 1 hour \n Presentation: ~20 minutes \n P/VP and subteam leads give the presentation. We go through the overall mission of CDS and every subteam has a chance to say their piece. \n Networking: ~40 minutes \n Candidates are able to talk to members of our project team. Everyone helps out here! Show up on time! It makes us look bad as a team if you aren’t there when everyone else is. Also, try to wear CDS merch if you can. If you don’t have any: a) why don’t you have merch go buy it please and b) you can ask someone to borrow theirs! Again, attendance at the information session is a part of your grade for the semester - please make an active effort to be there!
What is the purpose of information sessions?
Info sessions are just one aspect of our advertising on campus. We should also coordinate to have coffee chats, special info sessions with organizations like WICC and URMC (or maybe even joint computing info sessions with DTI, AppDev, and Hack4Impact), and other ways for people to get information about our organization as needed. But, the information session is clearly going to be people’s first choice for meeting us and learning more about what we do. \n To that end, we need to present ourselves well during the info sessions. It’s very obvious when you’re unprepared - either to present slides or talk to prospective candidates. 
How can current leads prepare for information sessions?
Practice your slides before the info session. There have been many information sessions where the leads are completely unprepared to talk about their team. This is frankly unacceptable. All of the teams need to appear equally energetic and ready to talk about the amazing things they do, or else you risk candidates assuming that some teams are better than others just based off the presentation. \n I know it is difficult - talking in front of large groups of people is an acquired skill. But it’s one you really do need to develop, especially if you’re a subteam lead. We’ll try to do practice runs in the E-Board meeting(s) leading up to the information session, but take the time to think carefully about what your subteam means to you and how you can best express it before just mindlessly copying down the slides from a previous year. 
How can current members for prepare for information sessions?
You are just as important at these info sessions as the leads (if not more). You’ll be talking to prospective members directly, and what you say to them can very well influence their decisions to apply. Be prepared to talk about your projects, onboarding, what it’s like to be on your specific subteam, etc. Think about what you’ve learned the most from and why. Be honest but also positive about your experience on CDS to give them a good impression. \n Also make sure to encourage people to talk to other members of the team. Sometimes candidates will latch on to a single subteam and stay there - while this isn’t the worst thing in the world, it actively hurts them. Frankly, freshmen have no idea what they’re interested in because they haven’t seen or heard of anything yet. They need to take a second to explore all of the options before settling on whether or not they want to apply to CDS in the first place. Encourage them to talk to people on other subteams, or even people on your subteam who are more experienced. This will really help in the long run. 
Why should I do coffee chats?
Coffee chats are a great way for prospective members to learn more about our organization in a more isolated setting. It can be a bit intimidating to go up to a group of CDS members at an information session - particularly when one or two louder prospective members dominate the conversation. Coffee chats are a way for us to make the recruitment process more equitable, and to allow prospective members to communicate their interest in CDS to someone who is more closely aligned with their goals and interests. 
Are coffee chats used to evaluate candidates for recruitment?
Coffee chats are entirely optional in our recruitment process. In other words, no matter how great your coffee chat goes, it will not be used to determine whether a candidate gets into CDS. This is for a few reasons. First of all, you probably didn’t coffee chat every candidate - it’s unfair to use information that you learned in a coffee chat to advocate for a candidate. Second, your coffee chat is not a supervised interview. In that sense, you’re free to talk about whatever you’d like (and you should!) - but they are not held to the same standards as our applications and interviews. \n That being said, coffee chats can be used to disqualify candidates who show serious red flags. If you see anything you think is a red flag, talk to Salma immediately. 
What are the guidelines for coffee chats?
I trust that everyone who does a coffee chat will carry themselves in a way that embodies the values we have on CDS. That being said, I’ve written up some guidelines that you should keep in mind while you’re talking with prospective candidates. \n First and foremost, coffee chats should be recorded and you should write up some notes in the Coffee Chat tracker. Each subteam has their own version of this tracker - make sure to pay attention to it. 
What are some potential questions I can ask candidates during coffee chats?
How did you hear about CDS? \n What can I provide more information about? \n Why/how did you choose Cornell? \n Why/how did you choose your major? \n Why are you interested in joining a project team? What do you hope to gain from joining a lproject team? \n Neutral questions to spark conversation: \n How are you liking your classes so far? \n Are you involved in any things outside of classes (if they are a sophomore or junior)? / What would you like to be involved in? (freshman) \n What are some of your hobbies?
What questions might I receive or be asked?
Did you consider other project teams? How did you choose CDS? What makes CDS stand out? Encourage candidates to explore all of the project teams at Cornell and do not discredit other organizations on campus. Mention that they are all different, and people should take the time to figure out what each of them do to get a feel for the work and the culture. \n Do feel free to talk about the positive qualities of CDS. Maybe CDS stands out because of its emphasis on member education, the diversity of projects we do, the unique culture, etc. Feel free to discuss all of these things with candidates, as long as you make it clear that you aren’t bashing any other project team. \n What did you gain from CDS? 
What should I discuss in regards to recruitment?
Do not discuss the details of the interview or our review process or the applications. You can speak at a high level about the information presented in the information session, but nothing else. In other words, do not reveal any details of our interviews that might be confidential. 
What are questions typically asked during the recruitment process?
Our questions change semester-to-semester and depend heavily on what we are looking for in recruiting. For example, we might want people who are going to be able to contribute heavily to our projects some semesters, so we’ll phrase our questions in terms of project experience in leadership. Regardless, our questions carry the same general theme each semester: \n What do you hope to gain by being a member of CDS? \n Describe a significant team involvement of yours. \n Describe a situation when you were presented with a problem outside of your comfort zone and you were able to come up with a creative solution. \n In addition to these general questions, in fall 2023 we are going to start including subteam specific questions. It’s important to distinguish between general CDS questions and subteam specific questions for a few reasons. Firstly, subteam specific questions provide more context for why a candidate might specifically be interested in a certain aspect of data science. Perhaps they’re more interested in neural networks and deep learning architectures, and would be best suited for the DS subteam. Secondly, it allows the applicant to more clearly articulate their interest in multiple subteams, since we allow applicants to apply to two. \n E-Board will write the application each semester and present the questions to the rest of the club during an all-hands meeting, but hopefully everyone understands these questions and why we ask them to applicants in the written stage of the application. 
Do we expect resumes from applicants?
Sometimes we ask applicants for a resume. This is mainly useful for upperclassmen, since we’d like to know how they’ve spent their time on campus before applying to CDS. In particular, we are looking for upperclassmen who are involved in their organizations but not too busy. Good examples of this might be significant contributions to one or two other organizations on campus. It’s also helpful to get a sense for upperclassmen’s professional experience, as they might have developed skills that would be particularly useful for our project team. \n We do not consider resumes for freshmen applicants. It is an unfair advantage to applicants who come from more privileged backgrounds. Although certain aspects of their past might come up during interviews, we should not base any decisions on how many opportunities and resources a freshman applicant might have had in high school. Instead, we should focus the decision on whether or not the applicant has a passion for learning about our project team and can show that passion both through their writing and their interview. 
What are reviewing guidelines for the written application?
We get a lot of applicants, so naturally every member will have to read/review a lot of applications. Understandably, different people have different scoring tendencies. Some reviewers might be a harsh grader and others might be very generous. Rest assured, it doesn’t matter. We normalize the scores anyways, so just make sure that your scoring is genuine and consistent. Similar applicants should be given similar scores, regardless of what those numerical values are.  \n In the past, each subteam has had their own rubric for scoring the written application. This semester, all subteams will use the same guidelines for scoring the written application. There’s a few reasons for this. First, as a project team we strongly believe that all subteams are looking for the same behavioral characteristics: passion, curiosity, drive, etc. But more concretely, it’s not fair to have different subteams judge the same responses differently. Remember, applicants apply to more than one subteam - each subteam should hold the same standards. Moreover, we advertise to applicants that it doesn’t matter which subteam they apply to, so we should do our best to uphold that. \n That being said, understandably subteam fit is going to be something to think about even in the written review process. Subteams might be looking for different types of candidates each semester (i.e. maybe MLE wants a candidate with strong system design skills while DS wants someone with more mathematical intuition). This is perfectly fine - we just need to make sure that the evaluation metrics are the same for each candidate. It’s okay for subteams to have different priorities for recruiting, as long as the standards for what makes an applicant a good fit for CDS doesn’t change too much across each subteam. 
How does scoring work for written applications?
So how does it work? Broadly speaking, we’re looking for the following five criterion in candidates: \n Motivation and Commitment: Spends time and effort on their interests and seeks to achieve excellence. Shows commitment to a project and/or team. Demonstrates perseverance in seeing their project(s) through to completion \n Teamwork: Demonstrates the ability to work effectively in a team. Communicates ideas/opinions clearly and carefully. Welcomes feedback and ideas from others when tackling problems. \n Initiative: Drives change in difficult situations. Innovates efficient solution to speed up team’s project. Volunteers to take on additional responsibilities. Demonstrates social engagement. \n Problem Solving: Mentions learning new things in order to solve problems, reaching out to others. Actively welcomes challenges and pushes themself to solve them. \n Interest and Fit:  Mentions a CDS past project or perhaps some detail of our organization that demonstrates that they care about our team in particular. Has the capabilities to contribute to our projects and organization. \n These categories yield an interesting mix of objective and subjective characteristics. The scoring works as follows: each category is scored from 0-2. The maximum number of points for an application is 10 and the minimum is 0. Each question on the application is designed to target a specific criterion above. The first three characteristics are general to all subteams. Problem solving and Interest and Fit are specific to each subteam - although the criteria remains the same, subteam leads are welcome to design questions that target specifically what they are looking for.
How do I measure motivation and commitment for written applications?
0 - Response gives little to no indication of this. Either unclear how the applicant spends their time or the applicant does not seem particularly compelled to succeed in their endeavors. \n 1 - Reasonable initiative in past projects and commitments. Clearly makes an effort to do things, but their commitment and/or motivation to excel are not evident. \n 2 - Exceptional motivation and commitment. You’re impressed and even inspired. The candidate cares a lot about their work and you are confident they would bring the same fervor to CDS. 
How do I measure teamwork for written applications?
0 - No mention of working on a team or with others. Applicant is very self-centered or does not consider teamwork. \n 1 - Mentions working with others on some project. Calls out maintaining positive relationships or specifically how they resolved a conflict. Has experience working collaboratively with others, or mentoring others. \n 2 - Working with others in detail, clear communication throughout writing. Focuses on teamwork more than leadership. Recognizes when and how to rely on others rather than take ownership. 
How do I measure initivative for written applications?
0 - Response gives little to no indication of this. Applicant takes very little effort to pursue opportunities that are not right in front of them. \n 1 - Reasonable initiative in past projects/commitments. Contributes in some novel or meaningful way. \n 2 - Exceptional initiative and strong passion. You are impressed by their drive. Applicant clearly would bring a lot to CDS both within our current structure and in suggesting new ideas. 
How do I measure problem solving for written applications?
0 - Response gives little to no indication of this. Applicant can solve problems that have very clear solutions, but demonstrates little to no capability demonstrating more sophisticated problems. \n 1 - Reasonable problem solving skills demonstrated. Applicant can solve problems that are either ambiguous or challenging. Explains thought process. \n 2 - Exceptional problem solving. Shown affinity for solving hard problems that require a lot of effort to solve. You are impressed by their experience and their thought process that is shown in their writing. 
How do I measure interest and fit for written applications?
0 - Little to no mention of CDS - all responses can be copy/pasted into another project team application. \n 1 - Reasonable interest in CDS and reasonable fit. Applicant would fit in and clearly is interested in our organization, but might lack in exceptional passion or skills that make other candidates stand out. \n 2 - Deep interest in not only what we do, but also giving back to our organization (either through leadership, INFO 1998, or introducing some other new initiative). Clearly a strong fit for our culture and values. 
Can you give me an example of actual responses for differentiating points between rubric items?
Rubrics are great but it’s incredibly useful to see examples of actual responses when understanding how to score. What can be tricky for most people is differentiating between a 1 and a 2. This is just my opinion, but 2s are reserved for truly exceptional responses/applicants. A solid applicant should get at least a 1 in every category and a few 2s. Truly stellar candidates would get more 2s than 1s. \n Let’s consider the following prompt and response (note: before reading the commentary, consider what score you would give this response): \n Prompt: \n Describe a significant team involvement of yours. How did you contribute as a teammate? How did you impact the team's dynamic? (max 300 words) \n Response: \n   Last fall, I was a new member for CUABS — a business organization on campus. As part of my new member education process, myself, along with the other new members, were tasked with researching and presenting weekly deliverables on areas of business ranging from M&A banking to corporate social responsibility. \n Reflecting on that time, I realize what I appreciated most was our team environment — one that was collaborative but also unafraid to disagree. \n One week, we were instructed to brainstorm business solutions for a struggling toy company; my group spent hours going back and forth, struggling to decide on a solution that would answer the prompt. One member, Daniel, proposed that we expand the e-commerce division, while another, Emily, suggested that we instead pivot towards an organizational restructuring, while still another, CY, chipped in with something else. With so many options on the table and only one to choose from, we felt stumped. \n To end our stalemate, I asked each team member to lay out the rationale for their solution. Then together, as a group, we re-examined each proposal, scrutinizing each idea and proposing counter-arguments. No idea was any more exempt than the other — I even took it upon myself to talk through shortcomings in my own proposal. Finally, we weighed each option and made our final decision. \n Future deliverables followed in a similar manner — at any clash of ideas, my groups would take the time to confront each suggestion’s pros and cons, as each member felt encouraged to contribute their own perspective in shaping our final product. \n In CDS, I hope to find a similarly democratic team dynamic, where members feel free to collaborate but at the same time, unafraid to hash out controversies and disagreement. \n Commentary: \n This applicant received a 2 from all reviewers in the teamwork category. What made this response stand out? \n First, the prose is quite clean. Although this isn’t something we’re evaluating explicitly, well written responses are much easier to evaluate and give us a clearer picture of who the applicant is. \n Second, the response does a good job balancing the individual impact of the applicant in the challenging setting he describes against the teamwork that drove the project in the first place. What’s interesting about this response is that the applicant does not focus all of the attention on himself - he portrays himself as a mediator rather than the one dominating the discussion. He emphasizes that each members' contributions are critical, and that he himself is flawed. Yet, he is still able to highlight the unique asset that he brought forth to the team - the ability to look carefully at each idea in detail and also rally the team to success. \n Ultimately, this response is clear, elegant, and hits the prompt carefully. What’s even better, is that the anecdote is not some story about a programming project or other activity that prospective applicants might think (incorrectly) that we prefer. It’s a solid response that shows who the applicant is while convincing us that he would work well with the other members of CDS. 
What are the questions asked in the Fall 2023 written application?
General \n What do you hope to gain from being a member of CDS?  (max 300 words) \n Describe a significant team involvement of yours. How did you contribute as a teammate? How did you impact the team's dynamic? (max 300 words) \n Name a time when you really failed at something and it was a complete mess. How did you handle it? How would you handle it differently now? (max 300 words) 
What are the DE questions asked in the Fall 2023 written application?
DE \n How have you experienced "big data"? What does "big data" mean to you? (max 300 words)
What are the DS questions asked in the Fall 2023 written application?
DS \n Describe something in machine learning or artificial intelligence that you aren't an expert in but would like to explore further. (max 300 words)
What are the MLE questions asked in the Fall 2023 written application?
The process of building a machine learning product involves various sub-fields, such as data engineering, modeling, deployment, business analysis, and infrastructure. Which of these fields do you find particularly compelling and why? (max 300 words)
What are the QF questions asked in the Fall 2023 written application?
Have you engaged in any self-study or personal projects related to quantitative finance or algorithmic trading? If yes, please elaborate. If not, what topics in the space are you interested in exploring? (max 300 words)
How do we offer interviews to potential candidates?
Offering Interviews \n Subteam leads will offer interviews to the top applicants. The Vice President will send out rejections to all denied applicants. \n As a rule of thumb, all subteams should offer between 4 and 10 interviews depending on how many members the subteam is trying to recruit. More interviews than this can be really hard to manage, and less is an indicator that you probably cut a lot of strong applicants a bit early. \n The scores might not reveal everything, even after normalizing. We recommend the following process: \n Eliminate the bottom 75% of the pool (assuming 25% of the pool is still at least 10 applicants) \n Automatically give the top three applicants interviews \n Deliberate over the rest of the top quarter that isn’t in the top three \n The deliberations do not need to be incredibly exhaustive, but you should at least discuss the rationale for giving certain candidates interviews over others - particularly when the scores are close and the differences could easily be accounted for by differences in reviewers. 
Can you give me some background about the interview process for CDS?
For most of CDS’s history, each subteam has had a completely different interview. IntSys had the presentation, DE had the system design question, Insights had a data exploration question, etc. All of these interviews had one thing in common: they gave candidates a chance to prepare in advance. This is critical to our review - we frankly don’t care about candidates' ability to solve arbitrary LeetCode problems. It doesn’t help them when they get onto CDS and it’s a very shallow metric for potential on our team. \n This semester, we’re going to try to standardize the interview processes across the subteams a bit more. One issue with all the different interviews is that the review is substantially different for each subteam. Again, it’s fine for subteams to make decisions that are best suited to their standards, but it should not be the case that the application process is substantially different depending on the subteam the candidate applies to. 
What is the interview structure for CDS applicants?
Interviews in Fall 2023 will be approximately one hour: \n 15 minutes: Behavioral questions \n 20 minutes: Take-Home portion \n 20 minutes: Technical/Learning portion \n 5 minutes: Questions \n We’ll dive into each portion in the rest of this guide, but first some background. Some project teams have behavioral interviews entirely separate from the technical interviews. We opt not to do this because it simply consumes too much time. Project teams that operate like this normally have much shorter interviews - by having hour long interviews we think we can get all of the information we need to make a decision. \n Each applicant should have two or three interviewers. No more than three and definitely no less than two. One of the interviewers should be a subteam lead. This is to ensure a broader consistency of review - it’s easier to compare candidates to each other when the same interviewer(s) have seen each candidate. With that, let’s dive into each component of the interview. 
How can I be a good interviewer and what are the guidelines?
Evaluating candidates is hard. Particularly if you’re not an experienced interviewer. This is another reason why we prefer subteam leads to be in every interview - they are often more experienced at this kind of thing and can help steer he interview in the right direction. \n The first thing to make sure you do is prepare for the interview. Candidates are spend a lot of time preparing for our interview - make sure you put the same effort in. In fact, you need to be more capable and confident in yourself than the candidate. You have the right answers. Particularly for the technical portions, make sure you’re well studied and understand the solutions deeply. You need to be able to provide hints and guidance if the applicant goes off the beaten path, and you also need to be able to understand solutions that aren’t the default one we provide. \n From a non-technical perspective, you need to do your research on the applicant. Read their application! Take a few minutes to read their resume as well and learn about their background. All of these things will help you ask better questions during the interview and help you hone in on whatever doubts you need to accept this candidate to our team. In other words, if there are weaknesses in their written application, look carefully for the information you are missing and ensure that you get the information you need during the interview - or at least try. Some candidates might not be very receptive and that’s fine, but overall you should make the interview go as smoothly as possible for them. \n And this goes without saying but as an interviewer you also need to bring a certain energy to the interview.  Our candidates are young Cornellians - they’re either freshmen or sophomores who are still figuring out their interests and don’t necessarily know the lay of the land yet. Be a welcoming face as an upperclassmen and a member of our community. Show them that being on our project team is a great way to spend your time in college. Remember, their interviewing you just as much as you are interviewing them. Be friendly, make eye contact, smile, relax. 
Why do we ask behavioral questions during the interview?
Why do we ask behavioral questions? After all, we cover a lot of the characteristics we’re looking for in the application. For starters, it’s easy to lie in an application. We also tend to have a slight bias towards candidates who are good writers, but not necessarily candidates who have the best behavioral qualities. This is a natural human bias that we try to avoid, but nonetheless it still exists. \n So the behavioral questions are essentially our vibe check. It’s to affirm that the information in the application is in fact true, and also for us to get a sense of who the candidate is as a person and how they’d fit in with the culture of our team. To that end as an interviewer you should tailor your questions to the pieces of information you feel like you are missing to make a judgment about the candidate. We’ll provide a framework of questions, but it’s your job to prepare beforehand by reading the application carefully and selecting the questions that address your doubts. \n Of course, we also need to ensure some level of consistency so there will be at least two questions that every candidate gets asked. 
What are some general questions asked in the interview process?
In our application we asked you to tell us about a time you failed. Could you now tell us about a project or experience that went really well for you? What made you successful in that endeavor?  \n How have you been able to balance your coursework, extracurriculars, and and social life while here at Cornell? Where would a project team fit into that schedule? \n Tell us about something you taught yourself. How did you do it and why? \n Tell me about a time when you had to work under pressure to meet a tight deadline or handle competing priorities. How did you manage your time effectively, and how did you ensure the quality of your work was not compromised? \n Describe a time when you had to take the lead or assume a leadership role within a technical team or project. How did you motivate and guide others, and what were the results? \n Can you discuss a time when you received constructive feedback on your work? How did you respond to the feedback, and how did it impact your subsequent performance or approach? \n Choose 2-3 of these questions to ask, no need to beat a dead horse. E-Board will announce the two questions that all candidates should be asked during their interviews on Slack. 
What are some applicant specific questions asked in the interview process?
I noticed [some experience] on your resume. Could you elaborate a bit more on what you learned from that experience? \n If they submitted a project idea: You mentioned wanting to work on [some project] with CDS. Could you tell me what piqued your interest in that subject area?
What are some subteam specific questions asked in the interview process?
Feel free to ask questions specific to your subteam. We will not provide these here - consult your subteam leads for good questions to ask.
What are the take-home questions for each subteam asked in the interview process?
Each subteam’s interview will consist of a technical take-home portion that the applicant needs to prepare for before the interview. Roughly, here are the topics for each subteam: \n DE: Data System Design Presentation \n DS: Machine Learning Model Presentation \n MLE: MLOps Technology Presentation \n QF: Quantitative Finance Model Presentation \n Leads should provide the prompt for the take-home question to the candidate at least two days in advance of the actual interview. The interview period can be quite hectic, so it’s important to give candidates an adequate amount of time to prepare for this. \n The take-home question is meant to assess the applicant’s dedication/preparation, problem solving skills, and communication. In essence, this is the foundation for proposing and delivering a design document for a CDS project. Obviously the topics for the question will be a lot narrower in scope depending on the subteam, but spirit is the same. Start out by letting them go through the solution they have proposed, and let them ask any questions they may have prepared. Take note of how prepared the candidate is and whether they thought about some of the important decisions/edge-cases or not. \n After hearing their presentation/solution, start getting into some of the details of their rubric. For DE, for example, start asking about some tougher questions that require some thinking: how to modularize and encapsulate the design? How to deploy it? How to maintain security and privacy? For DS, ask more nitty-gritty details about the model and perhaps push them on some edge cases that should’ve been addressed in their research. 
What are the technical/learning questions asked in the interview process?
In addition to the take home question, each interview should also feature a question that the candidate cannot prepare for. For upperclassmen, this question should involve some kind of programming. For underclassmen, it can involve programming, but only at a very basic level. \n The idea is the following: the interviewer will try to teach some topic to the candidate for the first time, and the candidate will need to address some technical challenge that relates to the topic that is taught. The candidate will also have the opportunity to use Google/ChatGPT or whatever other resource they need to help them with the question (so long as they don’t just ask ChatGPT for a solution…). As an interviewer, you’re also going to be there to answer any questions they might have and guide them in the right direction. \n The reason we ask this question is that we don’t care about how well the candidate is able to memorize information. They need to be able to think on their feet. It’s our job to design a question that not only allows them to do so, but also gives them the chance to use their resources. 
What are deliberations?
Deliberations are a critical part of our review process. It’s the final stage for an applicant to be invited to join our project team. \n Deliberations (or “delibs”) refers to the debate that occurs after the interviews. Subteam members go through the notes and scores taken during the interview and debate the merits of each candidate. It’s important to note that the scores reveal a lot about the candidates' performance, but they don’t tell the whole story. As such, we recommend the following strategy during deliberations: \n Cut the bottom half of the scorers in the interviews \n Deliberate over all remaining candidates \n In other words, nobody is automatically in. The entire subteam should reach consensus before coming to a conclusion about who to accept. \n After deliberations, the final results should be sent off to the Vice President for final approval, and then offers can be extended. \n It’s important to note that if you participate in candidate interviews, you must commit to being present for the entirety of the deliberations. Your perspectives are critical, particularly if there are only 2-3 interviewers per candidate. Interviewers need to be able to corroborate with each other to figure out what the general consensus about the candidate is. It’s also an important time for interviewers to compare notes with eachother about different candidates. \n Remember, if you interview a candidate, you are their most important supporter. You can singlehandedly get an applicant rejected if you don’t speak very highly of them during deliberations. This is both a privilege and a huge responsibility. You have to speak your mind during deliberations, and make sure that any opinions you have are expressed carefully as to not unfairly shoot down any candidates that would fit in well with our team. 
What are some of the guidelines for deliberations?
Here are some things that are not okay to say during deliberations: \n “This candidate was dumb” \n “I did not like the vibes of this candidate” \n “I feel like they were just kind of meh” \n “I loved this candidate” \n “This candidate was incredibly smart”
What are some of the things you should and can say during deliberations?
“This candidate seriously struggled on the programming portion of the interview. I don’t have confidence in their coding skills” \n “The candidate clearly did not research the take home portion. I’m not sure they will be committed to our projects. They did not give any specific examples of tools they would use to implement the application” \n “This candidate’s performance on the programming section blew me away. They got the optimal solution very quickly and wrote syntactically correct C code. They even provided a runtime analysis with some ideas to cut down on the complexity even further in the case of large inputs” \n “This candidate clearly did their research for the take home portion. They talked extensively about DBMSs they have used in the past and would try to learn in the future. They even tied it into a current CDS project which I found really interesting.” \n See the difference? One focuses on vague generalities that you can’t really get a lot of information from. The other focuses on actions and concrete examples. This not only makes our deliberations more productive, it stops us from making dumb decisions. Keep in mind that you’ll be expected to report information about the candidates with this level of detail, so you should be taking notes with enough detail that allow you to make these kinds of claims and observations. You don’t want your interviewee to get rejected just because you didn’t do your due diligence during the interview. 
How do I extend an offer to a candidate?
Once the team comes to a consensus, it’s time to extend offers. Woo! \n Remember to clear all of your acceptances with the vice president (and your rejections as well). For candidates that applied to multiple subteams and might have gotten through, the Vice President will need to check to see which one they put first. This might also mean that you are able to accept another candidate that you would have otherwise been unable to accept - a victory! 
How do I debrief during deliberations?
Deliberations can get pretty heated. It’s important to focus on the applicants and their many amazing qualities and not attack your subteam members. We all have the same goal: to accept the best candidates possible. No matter how heated the deliberations get, stay respectful and stay objective. \n Afterwards, the team should debrief. It’s always good to get feedback on our recruitment process, both internally and externally. Recruitment is vital to the culture of CDS, so we need to make sure that we critically evaluate our internal processes each semester. 
What is DEI?
DEI stands for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. These are closely linked values that many organizations that are working to be supportive of different groups of individuals, including people of different races, ethnicities, religions, abilities, genders, and sexual orientations. \n Diversity—through the lenses of race, ethnicity, ability, gender, sexual orientation, neurodiversity, and beyond—can help to strengthen organizations, as studies have shown time and again. Quite simply, diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) is used to describe three values that many organizations today strive to embody to help meet the needs of people from all walks of life. 
What is DEI on CDS?
It’s no secret that we have a bit of a problem with this on CDS. Most of our membership is predominantly male and Asian American. Moreover, we have noticed a trend in our tendency to recruit students from particular socioeconomic backgrounds, where they’ve had much more experience with CS before coming to Cornell than average students. 
What is the problem with DEI on CDS?
First, these students don’t always tend to be better performers than those who don’t come from as strong an academic background. Some of our best-performing team members started CS by taking CS 1110 as a freshman after never having coded a day in their lives. Moreover, a lack of diversity can also lead to a lack of different opinions (something critically needed in technical projects), a lack of innovation and ultimately a lowering in the quality of our work. \n Ultimately, it is our job as members of CDS to try to promote DEI within our team. That means both by opening up our team to people from more diverse backgrounds and also making sure that they feel included when they do join. 
How do we keep DEI in mind?
Before answering this, it can be helpful to try and understand how the problem we have came about. The main reason why we don’t recruit as many girls or under-represented minorities is not because we are intentionally excluding them from the process, it’s because our applicant pool is fundamentally skewed to the demographics that we tend to recruit. This is a hard problem to fix, but it’s one we need to fix nonetheless. It starts with our information sessions, coffee chats, and recruiting efforts, but ultimately we all need to contribute to making sure people feel like CDS is a place where they can fit in on campus when they’re considering what organizations to apply to. \n This means holding joint events with organizations such as URMC and WICC and even encouraging more students to sign up for INFO 1998. AppDev, for example, has a strong culture of recruiting from their courses. For this reason, they are able to actively foster a diverse environment on their project team, because their courses serve to level the playing field. \n Once we improve our applicant pool, we need to also improve our practices to make people feel welcome within our team. Many people have expressed that sometimes CDS is a bit of a boy’s club - you can look through our photos for yourself and tell me if you agree. \n Inclusion is about subtleties. It’s easy to make friends with people from similar backgrounds to you. Go the extra mile to make all members of our team feel included. This burden particularly falls on upperclassmen. You’ve been on the team for a while - when we get a batch of new members, don’t just talk to the ones that you happen to already know or come from a similar background to. Talk to everyone! Make new members feel included and hopefully we can start to build a culture of inclusion. 
How do we consider DEI in recruiting?
CDS will not consider factors beyond our application and interview materials in deliberations. \n  Creating the notion of a “diversity candidate” actually hurts more than it helps. It creates resentment between people on CDS from the majority demographic and the candidates that get accepted because they contribute to our diversity. We want all members of CDS to feel like they belong, and this means that we do not change our recruiting standards to improve our diversity. \n Considering external factors does not get at the underlying problem. Our applicant pool is not diverse - if we just take the candidates that improve our diversity it does not fix the problem that many people who don’t come from the same background as most people on CDS won’t want to apply. \n So what can we do instead during recruitment? Again, hold info sessions with orgs like URMC and WICC and be more aggressive about coffee chats and other methods of interacting with prospective applicants. But most importantly, we also need to design an interview process that doesn’t favor people from certain backgrounds. No LeetCode questions, no convoluted math problems, etc. This is part of the reason why we’re moving towards a learning-style interview where you have to think on your feet. \n Ultimately, DEI is everyone’s responsibility. Not just one or two members on our team who happen to come from diverse backgrounds. It’s an effort we must make every day to be inclusive and recognize that diversity only strengthens our project team. 